We have an issue with tools... consider tiered smithing hammers.

A bronze hammer provides a 10% bonus to craft speed and an iron hammer provides 20%.

We need to stop the player from carrying both hammers and stacking the bonus, because if we do not players will be running around with bags full of tools.

Instead, we apply an item category limit of 1.

But, a limit of 1 means that the player cannot craft their iron hammer whilst they have a bronze hammer.

First the bronze hammer must be destroyed, and then the iron hammer can be crafted which feels clunky.

Ok, let's increase the limit to two hammers.

But now the player will have both hammers because of the stacking bonus.

With both hammers in bag, the player is unable to craft the next tier of hammer... Mithril.

So, category limits are not a practical solution.

What else can we do?

Make the hammer effects not stacking is one option, but It is not clear how to make this occur with different spell IDs.
Possibly making the effect unique?
If that worked a tooltip to alert the player to fact the bonus will not stack is probably sufficient.

What if we can't prevent the bonus from stacking?


What about limiting the bonus to certain recipes.
For example a Bronze hammer only improves craft speed on recipes containing copper and bronze.
The Iron hammer only improves craft speed on recipes containing iron and steel
It incentivises the player to only carry the hammer of their current smithing skill because they are less likely to be crafting with lesser metals.
There is no stacking bonus as each hammer affects a different set of recipes.

But how does the hammer know?

We have allocated Spell family 14 to professions.
Each Spell Family slot has 32 masks, with a total of three slots per family.

It means we can have 96 masks within a single spell family.
96 different masks to use for our professions.
Blacksmithing could use 1 for each metal
bronze, iron, mithril, thorium, fel iron, adamantite, cobalt, saronite
8 of the 96 masks would be consumed this way.

An SQL query can be run across the DBC database looking for blacksmithing recipes that contain one of those metals.

What about recipes containing both metals?

oh no, all 3 recipes in the game receive a double craft speed bonus. probably not a big deal.
